docs/source/using-diffusers/rl.mdx, before:

<!--Copyright 2022 The HuggingFace Team. All rights reserved.

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with
the License. You may obtain a copy of the License at

http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software distributed under the License is distributed on
an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See the License for the
specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
-->

# Using Diffusers for reinforcement learning

Support for one RL model and related pipelines is included in the `experimental` source of diffusers.

To try some of this in colab, please look at the following example:
* Model-based reinforcement learning on Colab [![Open In Colab](https://colab.research.google.com/assets/colab-badge.svg)](https://colab.research.google.com/github/huggingface/notebooks/blob/main/diffusers/reinforcement_learning_with_diffusers.ipynb) ![Open In Colab](https://colab.research.google.com/assets/colab-badge.svg)

Commit message:

Update RL docs for better sharing / adding models (#1563)
* init docs update

* style

* fix bad colab formatting, add pipeline comment

* update todo

docs/source/using-diffusers/rl.mdx, after:

<!--Copyright 2022 The HuggingFace Team. All rights reserved.

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with
the License. You may obtain a copy of the License at

http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software distributed under the License is distributed on
an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See the License for the
specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
-->

# Using Diffusers for reinforcement learning

Support for one RL model and related pipelines is included in the `experimental` source of diffusers.
More models and examples coming soon!

# Diffuser Value-guided Planning

You can run the model from [*Planning with Diffusion for Flexible Behavior Synthesis*](https://arxiv.org/abs/2205.09991) with Diffusers.
The script is located in the [RL Examples](https://github.com/huggingface/diffusers/tree/main/examples/rl) folder.

Or, run this example in Colab [![Open In Colab](https://colab.research.google.com/assets/colab-badge.svg)](https://colab.research.google.com/github/huggingface/notebooks/blob/main/diffusers/reinforcement_learning_with_diffusers.ipynb)

[[autodoc]] diffusers.experimental.ValueGuidedRLPipeline
