docs/source/optimization/mps.mdx, before:

<!--Copyright 2022 The HuggingFace Team. All rights reserved.

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with
the License. You may obtain a copy of the License at

http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software distributed under the License is distributed on
an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See the License for the
specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
-->

# How to use Stable Diffusion in Apple Silicon (M1/M2)

🤗 Diffusers is compatible with Apple silicon for Stable Diffusion inference, using the PyTorch `mps` device. These are the steps you need to follow to use your M1 or M2 computer with Stable Diffusion.

## Requirements

- Mac computer with Apple silicon (M1/M2) hardware.
- macOS 12.3 or later.
- arm64 version of Python.
- PyTorch [Preview (Nightly)](https://pytorch.org/get-started/locally/), version `1.14.0.dev20221007` or later.

## Inference Pipeline

The snippet below demonstrates how to use the `mps` backend using the familiar `to()` interface to move the Stable Diffusion pipeline to your M1 or M2 device.

We recommend to "prime" the pipeline using an additional one-time pass through it. This is a temporary workaround for a weird issue we have detected: the first inference pass produces slightly different results than subsequent ones. You only need to do this pass once, and it's ok to use just one inference step and discard the result.

```python
# make sure you're logged in with `huggingface-cli login`
from diffusers import StableDiffusionPipeline

pipe = StableDiffusionPipeline.from_pretrained("runwayml/stable-diffusion-v1-5")
pipe = pipe.to("mps")

prompt = "a photo of an astronaut riding a horse on mars"

# First-time "warmup" pass (see explanation above)
_ = pipe(prompt, num_inference_steps=1)

# Results match those from the CPU device after the warmup pass.
image = pipe(prompt).images[0]
```

## Known Issues

- As mentioned above, we are investigating a strange [first-time inference issue](https://github.com/huggingface/diffusers/issues/372).
- Generating multiple prompts in a batch [crashes or doesn't work reliably](https://github.com/huggingface/diffusers/issues/363). We believe this might be related to the [`mps` backend in PyTorch](https://github.com/pytorch/pytorch/issues/84039#issuecomment-1237735249), but we need to investigate in more depth. For now, we recommend to iterate instead of batching.

## Performance

These are the results we got on a M1 Max MacBook Pro with 64 GB of RAM, running macOS Ventura Version 13.0 Beta (22A5331f). We performed Stable Diffusion text-to-image generation of the same prompt for 50 inference steps, using a guidance scale of 7.5.

| Device | Steps | Time    |
|--------|-------|---------|
| CPU    | 50    | 213.46s |
| MPS    | 50    | 30.81s  |

Commit message:

mps changes for PyTorch 1.13 (#926)
* Docs: refer to pre-RC version of PyTorch 1.13.0.

* Remove temporary workaround for unavailable op.

* Update comment to make it less ambiguous.

* Remove use of contiguous in mps.

It appears to not longer be necessary.

* Special case: use einsum for much better performance in mps

* Update mps docs.

* Minor doc update.

* Accept suggestion

Co-authored-by: Anton Lozhkov <anton@huggingface.co>

Co-authored-by: Anton Lozhkov <anton@huggingface.co>

docs/source/optimization/mps.mdx, after:

<!--Copyright 2022 The HuggingFace Team. All rights reserved.

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with
the License. You may obtain a copy of the License at

http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software distributed under the License is distributed on
an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See the License for the
specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
-->

# How to use Stable Diffusion in Apple Silicon (M1/M2)

🤗 Diffusers is compatible with Apple silicon for Stable Diffusion inference, using the PyTorch `mps` device. These are the steps you need to follow to use your M1 or M2 computer with Stable Diffusion.

## Requirements

- Mac computer with Apple silicon (M1/M2) hardware.
- macOS 12.6 or later (13.0 or later recommended).
- arm64 version of Python.
- PyTorch 1.13.0 RC (Release Candidate). You can install it with `pip` using:

```
pip3 install --pre torch --extra-index-url https://download.pytorch.org/whl/test/cpu
```

## Inference Pipeline

The snippet below demonstrates how to use the `mps` backend using the familiar `to()` interface to move the Stable Diffusion pipeline to your M1 or M2 device.

We recommend to "prime" the pipeline using an additional one-time pass through it. This is a temporary workaround for a weird issue we have detected: the first inference pass produces slightly different results than subsequent ones. You only need to do this pass once, and it's ok to use just one inference step and discard the result.

```python
# make sure you're logged in with `huggingface-cli login`
from diffusers import StableDiffusionPipeline

pipe = StableDiffusionPipeline.from_pretrained("runwayml/stable-diffusion-v1-5")
pipe = pipe.to("mps")

# Recommended if your computer has < 64 GB of RAM
pipe.enable_attention_slicing()

prompt = "a photo of an astronaut riding a horse on mars"

# First-time "warmup" pass (see explanation above)
_ = pipe(prompt, num_inference_steps=1)

# Results match those from the CPU device after the warmup pass.
image = pipe(prompt).images[0]
```

## Performance Recommendations

M1/M2 performance is very sensitive to memory pressure. The system will automatically swap if it needs to, but performance will degrade significantly when it does.

We recommend you use _attention slicing_ to reduce memory pressure during inference and prevent swapping, particularly if your computer has lass than 64 GB of system RAM, or if you generate images at non-standard resolutions larger than 512 × 512 pixels. Attention slicing performs the costly attention operation in multiple steps instead of all at once. It usually has a performance impact of ~20% in computers without universal memory, but we have observed _better performance_ in most Apple Silicon computers, unless you have 64 GB or more.

```python
pipeline.enable_attention_slicing()
```

## Known Issues

- As mentioned above, we are investigating a strange [first-time inference issue](https://github.com/huggingface/diffusers/issues/372).
- Generating multiple prompts in a batch [crashes or doesn't work reliably](https://github.com/huggingface/diffusers/issues/363). We believe this is related to the [`mps` backend in PyTorch](https://github.com/pytorch/pytorch/issues/84039). For now, we recommend to iterate instead of batching.
