docs/source/api/configuration.mdx, before:

<!--Copyright 2022 The HuggingFace Team. All rights reserved.

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with
the License. You may obtain a copy of the License at

http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software distributed under the License is distributed on
an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See the License for the
specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
-->

# Models

Diffusers contains pretrained models for popular algorithms and modules for creating the next set of diffusion models.
The primary function of these models is to denoise an input sample, by modeling the distribution $p_\theta(\mathbf{x}_{t-1}|\mathbf{x}_t)$.
The models are built on the base class ['ModelMixin'] that is a `torch.nn.module` with basic functionality for saving and loading models both locally and from the HuggingFace hub.

## API

Models should provide the `def forward` function and initialization of the model.
All saving, loading, and utilities should be in the base ['ModelMixin'] class.

## Examples

- The ['UNetModel'] was proposed in [TODO](https://arxiv.org/) and has been used in paper1, paper2, paper3.
- Extensions of the ['UNetModel'] include the ['UNetGlideModel'] that uses attention and timestep embeddings for the [GLIDE](https://arxiv.org/abs/2112.10741) paper, the ['UNetGradTTS'] model from this [paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/2105.06337) for text-to-speech, ['UNetLDMModel'] for latent-diffusion models in this [paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/2112.10752), and the ['TemporalUNet'] used for time-series prediciton in this reinforcement learning [paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/2205.09991).
- TODO: mention VAE / SDE score estimation

Commit message:

Add config docs (#429)
* advance

* finish

* finish

docs/source/api/configuration.mdx, after:

<!--Copyright 2022 The HuggingFace Team. All rights reserved.

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with
the License. You may obtain a copy of the License at

http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software distributed under the License is distributed on
an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See the License for the
specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
-->

# Configuration

In Diffusers, schedulers of type [`schedulers.scheduling_utils.SchedulerMixin`], and models of type [`ModelMixin`] inherit from [`ConfigMixin`] which conveniently takes care of storing all parameters that are 
passed to the respective `__init__` methods in a JSON-configuration file.

TODO(PVP) - add example and better info here

## ConfigMixin
[[autodoc]] ConfigMixin
	- from_config
	- save_config
