docs/source/index.mdx, before:

<!--Copyright 2022 The HuggingFace Team. All rights reserved.

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with
the License. You may obtain a copy of the License at

http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software distributed under the License is distributed on
an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See the License for the
specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
-->

<p align="center">
    <br>
    <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/huggingface/diffusers/77aadfee6a891ab9fcfb780f87c693f7a5beeb8e/docs/source/imgs/diffusers_library.jpg" width="400"/>
    <br>
</p>

# 🧨 Diffusers

🤗 Diffusers provides pretrained vision and audio diffusion models, and serves as a modular toolbox for inference and training.

More precisely, 🤗 Diffusers offers:

- State-of-the-art diffusion pipelines that can be run in inference with just a couple of lines of code (see [**Using Diffusers**](./using-diffusers/conditional_image_generation)) or have a look at [**Pipelines**](#pipelines) to get an overview of all supported pipelines and their corresponding papers.
- Various noise schedulers that can be used interchangeably for the preferred speed vs. quality trade-off in inference. For more information see [**Schedulers**](./api/schedulers/overview).
- Multiple types of models, such as UNet, can be used as building blocks in an end-to-end diffusion system. See [**Models**](./api/models) for more details 
- Training examples to show how to train the most popular diffusion model tasks. For more information see [**Training**](./training/overview).

## 🧨 Diffusers Pipelines

The following table summarizes all officially supported pipelines, their corresponding paper, and if 
available a colab notebook to directly try them out.

| Pipeline | Paper | Tasks | Colab
|---|---|:---:|:---:|
| [alt_diffusion](./api/pipelines/alt_diffusion) | [**AltDiffusion**](https://arxiv.org/abs/2211.06679) | Image-to-Image Text-Guided Generation |
| [audio_diffusion](./api/pipelines/audio_diffusion) | [**Audio Diffusion**](https://github.com/teticio/audio-diffusion.git) | Unconditional Audio Generation | [![Open In Colab](https://colab.research.google.com/assets/colab-badge.svg)](https://colab.research.google.com/github/teticio/audio-diffusion/blob/master/notebooks/audio_diffusion_pipeline.ipynb)
| [cycle_diffusion](./api/pipelines/cycle_diffusion) | [**Cycle Diffusion**](https://arxiv.org/abs/2210.05559) | Image-to-Image Text-Guided Generation |
| [dance_diffusion](./api/pipelines/dance_diffusion) | [**Dance Diffusion**](https://github.com/williamberman/diffusers.git) | Unconditional Audio Generation |
| [ddpm](./api/pipelines/ddpm) | [**Denoising Diffusion Probabilistic Models**](https://arxiv.org/abs/2006.11239) | Unconditional Image Generation |
| [ddim](./api/pipelines/ddim) | [**Denoising Diffusion Implicit Models**](https://arxiv.org/abs/2010.02502) | Unconditional Image Generation |
| [latent_diffusion](./api/pipelines/latent_diffusion) | [**High-Resolution Image Synthesis with Latent Diffusion Models**](https://arxiv.org/abs/2112.10752)| Text-to-Image Generation | 
| [latent_diffusion](./api/pipelines/latent_diffusion) | [**High-Resolution Image Synthesis with Latent Diffusion Models**](https://arxiv.org/abs/2112.10752)| Super Resolution Image-to-Image | 
| [latent_diffusion_uncond](./api/pipelines/latent_diffusion_uncond) | [**High-Resolution Image Synthesis with Latent Diffusion Models**](https://arxiv.org/abs/2112.10752) | Unconditional Image Generation | 
| [paint_by_example](./api/pipelines/paint_by_example) | [**Paint by Example: Exemplar-based Image Editing with Diffusion Models**](https://arxiv.org/abs/2211.13227) | Image-Guided Image Inpainting | 
| [pndm](./api/pipelines/pndm) | [**Pseudo Numerical Methods for Diffusion Models on Manifolds**](https://arxiv.org/abs/2202.09778) | Unconditional Image Generation | 
| [score_sde_ve](./api/pipelines/score_sde_ve) | [**Score-Based Generative Modeling through Stochastic Differential Equations**](https://openreview.net/forum?id=PxTIG12RRHS) | Unconditional Image Generation | 
| [score_sde_vp](./api/pipelines/score_sde_vp) | [**Score-Based Generative Modeling through Stochastic Differential Equations**](https://openreview.net/forum?id=PxTIG12RRHS) | Unconditional Image Generation | 
| [stable_diffusion](./api/pipelines/stable_diffusion) | [**Stable Diffusion**](https://stability.ai/blog/stable-diffusion-public-release) | Text-to-Image Generation | [![Open In Colab](https://colab.research.google.com/assets/colab-badge.svg)](https://colab.research.google.com/github/huggingface/notebooks/blob/main/diffusers/training_example.ipynb)
| [stable_diffusion](./api/pipelines/stable_diffusion) | [**Stable Diffusion**](https://stability.ai/blog/stable-diffusion-public-release) | Image-to-Image Text-Guided Generation | [![Open In Colab](https://colab.research.google.com/assets/colab-badge.svg)](https://colab.research.google.com/github/huggingface/notebooks/blob/main/diffusers/image_2_image_using_diffusers.ipynb)
| [stable_diffusion](./api/pipelines/stable_diffusion) | [**Stable Diffusion**](https://stability.ai/blog/stable-diffusion-public-release) | Text-Guided Image Inpainting | [![Open In Colab](https://colab.research.google.com/assets/colab-badge.svg)](https://colab.research.google.com/github/huggingface/notebooks/blob/main/diffusers/in_painting_with_stable_diffusion_using_diffusers.ipynb)
| [stable_diffusion_2](./api/pipelines/stable_diffusion_2) | [**Stable Diffusion 2**](https://stability.ai/blog/stable-diffusion-v2-release) | Text-to-Image Generation | 
| [stable_diffusion_2](./api/pipelines/stable_diffusion_2) | [**Stable Diffusion 2**](https://stability.ai/blog/stable-diffusion-v2-release) | Text-Guided Image Inpainting | 
| [stable_diffusion_2](./api/pipelines/stable_diffusion_2) | [**Stable Diffusion 2**](https://stability.ai/blog/stable-diffusion-v2-release) | Text-Guided Super Resolution Image-to-Image |
| [stable_diffusion_safe](./api/pipelines/stable_diffusion_safe) | [**Safe Stable Diffusion**](https://arxiv.org/abs/2211.05105) | Text-Guided Generation | [![Open In Colab](https://colab.research.google.com/assets/colab-badge.svg)](https://colab.research.google.com/github/ml-research/safe-latent-diffusion/blob/main/examples/Safe%20Latent%20Diffusion.ipynb)
| [stochastic_karras_ve](./api/pipelines/stochastic_karras_ve) | [**Elucidating the Design Space of Diffusion-Based Generative Models**](https://arxiv.org/abs/2206.00364) | Unconditional Image Generation | 
| [versatile_diffusion](./api/pipelines/versatile_diffusion) | [Versatile Diffusion: Text, Images and Variations All in One Diffusion Model](https://arxiv.org/abs/2211.08332) | Text-to-Image Generation | 
| [versatile_diffusion](./api/pipelines/versatile_diffusion) | [Versatile Diffusion: Text, Images and Variations All in One Diffusion Model](https://arxiv.org/abs/2211.08332) | Image Variations Generation | 
| [versatile_diffusion](./api/pipelines/versatile_diffusion) | [Versatile Diffusion: Text, Images and Variations All in One Diffusion Model](https://arxiv.org/abs/2211.08332) | Dual Image and Text Guided Generation | 
| [vq_diffusion](./api/pipelines/vq_diffusion) | [Vector Quantized Diffusion Model for Text-to-Image Synthesis](https://arxiv.org/abs/2111.14822) | Text-to-Image Generation | 

**Note**: Pipelines are simple examples of how to play around with the diffusion systems as described in the corresponding papers.

Commit message:

unCLIP docs (#1754)
* [unCLIP docs] markdown

* [unCLIP docs] UnCLIPPipeline

docs/source/index.mdx, after:

<!--Copyright 2022 The HuggingFace Team. All rights reserved.

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with
the License. You may obtain a copy of the License at

http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software distributed under the License is distributed on
an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See the License for the
specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
-->

<p align="center">
    <br>
    <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/huggingface/diffusers/77aadfee6a891ab9fcfb780f87c693f7a5beeb8e/docs/source/imgs/diffusers_library.jpg" width="400"/>
    <br>
</p>

# 🧨 Diffusers

🤗 Diffusers provides pretrained vision and audio diffusion models, and serves as a modular toolbox for inference and training.

More precisely, 🤗 Diffusers offers:

- State-of-the-art diffusion pipelines that can be run in inference with just a couple of lines of code (see [**Using Diffusers**](./using-diffusers/conditional_image_generation)) or have a look at [**Pipelines**](#pipelines) to get an overview of all supported pipelines and their corresponding papers.
- Various noise schedulers that can be used interchangeably for the preferred speed vs. quality trade-off in inference. For more information see [**Schedulers**](./api/schedulers/overview).
- Multiple types of models, such as UNet, can be used as building blocks in an end-to-end diffusion system. See [**Models**](./api/models) for more details 
- Training examples to show how to train the most popular diffusion model tasks. For more information see [**Training**](./training/overview).

## 🧨 Diffusers Pipelines

The following table summarizes all officially supported pipelines, their corresponding paper, and if 
available a colab notebook to directly try them out.

| Pipeline | Paper | Tasks | Colab
|---|---|:---:|:---:|
| [alt_diffusion](./api/pipelines/alt_diffusion) | [**AltDiffusion**](https://arxiv.org/abs/2211.06679) | Image-to-Image Text-Guided Generation |
| [audio_diffusion](./api/pipelines/audio_diffusion) | [**Audio Diffusion**](https://github.com/teticio/audio-diffusion.git) | Unconditional Audio Generation | [![Open In Colab](https://colab.research.google.com/assets/colab-badge.svg)](https://colab.research.google.com/github/teticio/audio-diffusion/blob/master/notebooks/audio_diffusion_pipeline.ipynb)
| [cycle_diffusion](./api/pipelines/cycle_diffusion) | [**Cycle Diffusion**](https://arxiv.org/abs/2210.05559) | Image-to-Image Text-Guided Generation |
| [dance_diffusion](./api/pipelines/dance_diffusion) | [**Dance Diffusion**](https://github.com/williamberman/diffusers.git) | Unconditional Audio Generation |
| [ddpm](./api/pipelines/ddpm) | [**Denoising Diffusion Probabilistic Models**](https://arxiv.org/abs/2006.11239) | Unconditional Image Generation |
| [ddim](./api/pipelines/ddim) | [**Denoising Diffusion Implicit Models**](https://arxiv.org/abs/2010.02502) | Unconditional Image Generation |
| [latent_diffusion](./api/pipelines/latent_diffusion) | [**High-Resolution Image Synthesis with Latent Diffusion Models**](https://arxiv.org/abs/2112.10752)| Text-to-Image Generation | 
| [latent_diffusion](./api/pipelines/latent_diffusion) | [**High-Resolution Image Synthesis with Latent Diffusion Models**](https://arxiv.org/abs/2112.10752)| Super Resolution Image-to-Image | 
| [latent_diffusion_uncond](./api/pipelines/latent_diffusion_uncond) | [**High-Resolution Image Synthesis with Latent Diffusion Models**](https://arxiv.org/abs/2112.10752) | Unconditional Image Generation | 
| [paint_by_example](./api/pipelines/paint_by_example) | [**Paint by Example: Exemplar-based Image Editing with Diffusion Models**](https://arxiv.org/abs/2211.13227) | Image-Guided Image Inpainting | 
| [pndm](./api/pipelines/pndm) | [**Pseudo Numerical Methods for Diffusion Models on Manifolds**](https://arxiv.org/abs/2202.09778) | Unconditional Image Generation | 
| [score_sde_ve](./api/pipelines/score_sde_ve) | [**Score-Based Generative Modeling through Stochastic Differential Equations**](https://openreview.net/forum?id=PxTIG12RRHS) | Unconditional Image Generation | 
| [score_sde_vp](./api/pipelines/score_sde_vp) | [**Score-Based Generative Modeling through Stochastic Differential Equations**](https://openreview.net/forum?id=PxTIG12RRHS) | Unconditional Image Generation | 
| [stable_diffusion](./api/pipelines/stable_diffusion) | [**Stable Diffusion**](https://stability.ai/blog/stable-diffusion-public-release) | Text-to-Image Generation | [![Open In Colab](https://colab.research.google.com/assets/colab-badge.svg)](https://colab.research.google.com/github/huggingface/notebooks/blob/main/diffusers/training_example.ipynb)
| [stable_diffusion](./api/pipelines/stable_diffusion) | [**Stable Diffusion**](https://stability.ai/blog/stable-diffusion-public-release) | Image-to-Image Text-Guided Generation | [![Open In Colab](https://colab.research.google.com/assets/colab-badge.svg)](https://colab.research.google.com/github/huggingface/notebooks/blob/main/diffusers/image_2_image_using_diffusers.ipynb)
| [stable_diffusion](./api/pipelines/stable_diffusion) | [**Stable Diffusion**](https://stability.ai/blog/stable-diffusion-public-release) | Text-Guided Image Inpainting | [![Open In Colab](https://colab.research.google.com/assets/colab-badge.svg)](https://colab.research.google.com/github/huggingface/notebooks/blob/main/diffusers/in_painting_with_stable_diffusion_using_diffusers.ipynb)
| [stable_diffusion_2](./api/pipelines/stable_diffusion_2) | [**Stable Diffusion 2**](https://stability.ai/blog/stable-diffusion-v2-release) | Text-to-Image Generation | 
| [stable_diffusion_2](./api/pipelines/stable_diffusion_2) | [**Stable Diffusion 2**](https://stability.ai/blog/stable-diffusion-v2-release) | Text-Guided Image Inpainting | 
| [stable_diffusion_2](./api/pipelines/stable_diffusion_2) | [**Stable Diffusion 2**](https://stability.ai/blog/stable-diffusion-v2-release) | Text-Guided Super Resolution Image-to-Image |
| [stable_diffusion_safe](./api/pipelines/stable_diffusion_safe) | [**Safe Stable Diffusion**](https://arxiv.org/abs/2211.05105) | Text-Guided Generation | [![Open In Colab](https://colab.research.google.com/assets/colab-badge.svg)](https://colab.research.google.com/github/ml-research/safe-latent-diffusion/blob/main/examples/Safe%20Latent%20Diffusion.ipynb)
| [stochastic_karras_ve](./api/pipelines/stochastic_karras_ve) | [**Elucidating the Design Space of Diffusion-Based Generative Models**](https://arxiv.org/abs/2206.00364) | Unconditional Image Generation | 
| [unclip](./api/pipelines/unclip) | [Hierarchical Text-Conditional Image Generation with CLIP Latents](https://arxiv.org/abs/2204.06125) | Text-to-Image Generation |
| [versatile_diffusion](./api/pipelines/versatile_diffusion) | [Versatile Diffusion: Text, Images and Variations All in One Diffusion Model](https://arxiv.org/abs/2211.08332) | Text-to-Image Generation | 
| [versatile_diffusion](./api/pipelines/versatile_diffusion) | [Versatile Diffusion: Text, Images and Variations All in One Diffusion Model](https://arxiv.org/abs/2211.08332) | Image Variations Generation | 
| [versatile_diffusion](./api/pipelines/versatile_diffusion) | [Versatile Diffusion: Text, Images and Variations All in One Diffusion Model](https://arxiv.org/abs/2211.08332) | Dual Image and Text Guided Generation | 
| [vq_diffusion](./api/pipelines/vq_diffusion) | [Vector Quantized Diffusion Model for Text-to-Image Synthesis](https://arxiv.org/abs/2111.14822) | Text-to-Image Generation | 

**Note**: Pipelines are simple examples of how to play around with the diffusion systems as described in the corresponding papers.
