docs/source/api/pipelines/stable_diffusion_2.mdx, before:

<!--Copyright 2022 The HuggingFace Team. All rights reserved.

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with
the License. You may obtain a copy of the License at

http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software distributed under the License is distributed on
an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See the License for the
specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
-->

# Stable diffusion 2

Stable Diffusion 2 is a text-to-image _latent diffusion_ model built upon the work of [Stable Diffusion 1](https://stability.ai/blog/stable-diffusion-public-release). 
The project to train Stable Diffusion 2 was led by Robin Rombach and Katherine Crowson from [Stability AI](https://stability.ai/) and [LAION](https://laion.ai/).

*The Stable Diffusion 2.0 release includes robust text-to-image models trained using a brand new text encoder (OpenCLIP), developed by LAION with support from Stability AI, which greatly improves the quality of the generated images compared to earlier V1 releases. The text-to-image models in this release can generate images with default resolutions of both 512x512 pixels and 768x768 pixels. 
These models are trained on an aesthetic subset of the [LAION-5B dataset](https://laion.ai/blog/laion-5b/) created by the DeepFloyd team at Stability AI, which is then further filtered to remove adult content using [LAION’s NSFW filter](https://openreview.net/forum?id=M3Y74vmsMcY).*

For more details about how Stable Diffusion 2 works and how it differs from Stable Diffusion 1, please refer to the official [launch announcement post](https://stability.ai/blog/stable-diffusion-v2-release).

## Tips

### Available checkpoints:

Note that the architecture is more or less identical to [Stable Diffusion 1](./api/pipelines/stable_diffusion) so please refer to [this page](./api/pipelines/stable_diffusion) for API documentation.

- *Text-to-Image (512x512 resolution)*: [stabilityai/stable-diffusion-2-base](https://huggingface.co/stabilityai/stable-diffusion-2-base) with [`StableDiffusionPipeline`]
- *Text-to-Image (768x768 resolution)*: [stabilityai/stable-diffusion-2](https://huggingface.co/stabilityai/stable-diffusion-2) with [`StableDiffusionPipeline`]
- *Image Inpainting (512x512 resolution)*: [stabilityai/stable-diffusion-2-inpainting](https://huggingface.co/stabilityai/stable-diffusion-2-inpainting) with [`StableDiffusionInpaintPipeline`]
- *Image Upscaling (x4 resolution resolution)*: [stable-diffusion-x4-upscaler](https://huggingface.co/stabilityai/stable-diffusion-x4-upscaler) [`StableDiffusionUpscalePipeline`]
- *Depth-to-Image (512x512 resolution)*: [stabilityai/stable-diffusion-2-depth](https://huggingface.co/stabilityai/stable-diffusion-2-depth) with [`StableDiffusionDepth2ImagePipeline`]

We recommend using the [`DPMSolverMultistepScheduler`] as it's currently the fastest scheduler there is.

- *Text-to-Image (512x512 resolution)*:

```python
from diffusers import DiffusionPipeline, DPMSolverMultistepScheduler
import torch

repo_id = "stabilityai/stable-diffusion-2-base"
pipe = DiffusionPipeline.from_pretrained(repo_id, torch_dtype=torch.float16, revision="fp16")

pipe.scheduler = DPMSolverMultistepScheduler.from_config(pipe.scheduler.config)
pipe = pipe.to("cuda")

prompt = "High quality photo of an astronaut riding a horse in space"
image = pipe(prompt, num_inference_steps=25).images[0]
image.save("astronaut.png")
```

- *Text-to-Image (768x768 resolution)*:

```python
from diffusers import DiffusionPipeline, DPMSolverMultistepScheduler
import torch

repo_id = "stabilityai/stable-diffusion-2"
pipe = DiffusionPipeline.from_pretrained(repo_id, torch_dtype=torch.float16, revision="fp16")

pipe.scheduler = DPMSolverMultistepScheduler.from_config(pipe.scheduler.config)
pipe = pipe.to("cuda")

prompt = "High quality photo of an astronaut riding a horse in space"
image = pipe(prompt, guidance_scale=9, num_inference_steps=25).images[0]
image.save("astronaut.png")
```

- *Image Inpainting (512x512 resolution)*:

```python
import PIL
import requests
import torch
from io import BytesIO

from diffusers import DiffusionPipeline, DPMSolverMultistepScheduler


def download_image(url):
    response = requests.get(url)
    return PIL.Image.open(BytesIO(response.content)).convert("RGB")


img_url = "https://raw.githubusercontent.com/CompVis/latent-diffusion/main/data/inpainting_examples/overture-creations-5sI6fQgYIuo.png"
mask_url = "https://raw.githubusercontent.com/CompVis/latent-diffusion/main/data/inpainting_examples/overture-creations-5sI6fQgYIuo_mask.png"

init_image = download_image(img_url).resize((512, 512))
mask_image = download_image(mask_url).resize((512, 512))

repo_id = "stabilityai/stable-diffusion-2-inpainting"
pipe = DiffusionPipeline.from_pretrained(repo_id, torch_dtype=torch.float16, revision="fp16")

pipe.scheduler = DPMSolverMultistepScheduler.from_config(pipe.scheduler.config)
pipe = pipe.to("cuda")

prompt = "Face of a yellow cat, high resolution, sitting on a park bench"
image = pipe(prompt=prompt, image=init_image, mask_image=mask_image, num_inference_steps=25).images[0]

image.save("yellow_cat.png")
```

- *Image Upscaling (x4 resolution resolution)*: [stable-diffusion-x4-upscaler](https://huggingface.co/stabilityai/stable-diffusion-x4-upscaler) [`StableDiffusionUpscalePipeline`]

```python
import requests
from PIL import Image
from io import BytesIO
from diffusers import StableDiffusionUpscalePipeline
import torch

# load model and scheduler
model_id = "stabilityai/stable-diffusion-x4-upscaler"
pipeline = StableDiffusionUpscalePipeline.from_pretrained(model_id, torch_dtype=torch.float16)
pipeline = pipeline.to("cuda")

# let's download an  image
url = "https://huggingface.co/datasets/hf-internal-testing/diffusers-images/resolve/main/sd2-upscale/low_res_cat.png"
response = requests.get(url)
low_res_img = Image.open(BytesIO(response.content)).convert("RGB")
low_res_img = low_res_img.resize((128, 128))
prompt = "a white cat"
upscaled_image = pipeline(prompt=prompt, image=low_res_img).images[0]
upscaled_image.save("upsampled_cat.png")
```

- *Depth-Guided Text-to-Image*: [stabilityai/stable-diffusion-2-depth](https://huggingface.co/stabilityai/stable-diffusion-2-depth) [`StableDiffusionDepth2ImagePipeline`]

**Installation**

```bash
!pip install -U git+https://github.com/huggingface/transformers.git
!pip install diffusers[torch]
```

**Example**

```python
import torch
import requests
from PIL import Image

from diffusers import StableDiffusionDepth2ImgPipeline

pipe = StableDiffusionDepth2ImgPipeline.from_pretrained(
    "stabilityai/stable-diffusion-2-depth",
    torch_dtype=torch.float16,
).to("cuda")


url = "http://images.cocodataset.org/val2017/000000039769.jpg"
init_image = Image.open(requests.get(url, stream=True).raw)
prompt = "two tigers"
n_propmt = "bad, deformed, ugly, bad anotomy"
image = pipe(prompt=prompt, image=init_image, negative_prompt=n_propmt, strength=0.7).images[0]
```

### How to load and use different schedulers.

The stable diffusion pipeline uses [`DDIMScheduler`] scheduler by default. But `diffusers` provides many other schedulers that can be used with the stable diffusion pipeline such as [`PNDMScheduler`], [`LMSDiscreteScheduler`], [`EulerDiscreteScheduler`], [`EulerAncestralDiscreteScheduler`] etc.
To use a different scheduler, you can either change it via the [`ConfigMixin.from_config`] method or pass the `scheduler` argument to the `from_pretrained` method of the pipeline. For example, to use the [`EulerDiscreteScheduler`], you can do the following:

```python
>>> from diffusers import StableDiffusionPipeline, EulerDiscreteScheduler

>>> pipeline = StableDiffusionPipeline.from_pretrained("stabilityai/stable-diffusion-2")
>>> pipeline.scheduler = EulerDiscreteScheduler.from_config(pipeline.scheduler.config)

>>> # or
>>> euler_scheduler = EulerDiscreteScheduler.from_pretrained("stabilityai/stable-diffusion-2", subfolder="scheduler")
>>> pipeline = StableDiffusionPipeline.from_pretrained("stabilityai/stable-diffusion-2", scheduler=euler_scheduler)
```

Commit message:

updated doc for stable diffusion pipelines (#1770)
* add a doc page for each pipeline under api/pipelines/stable_diffusion
* add pipeline examples to docstrings
* updated stable_diffusion_2 page
* updated default markdown syntax to list methods based on https://github.com/huggingface/diffusers/pull/1870
* add function decorator

Co-authored-by: yiyixuxu <yixu@Yis-MacBook-Pro.lan>
Co-authored-by: Patrick von Platen <patrick.v.platen@gmail.com>

docs/source/api/pipelines/stable_diffusion_2.mdx, after:

<!--Copyright 2022 The HuggingFace Team. All rights reserved.

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with
the License. You may obtain a copy of the License at

http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software distributed under the License is distributed on
an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See the License for the
specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
-->

# Stable diffusion 2

Stable Diffusion 2 is a text-to-image _latent diffusion_ model built upon the work of [Stable Diffusion 1](https://stability.ai/blog/stable-diffusion-public-release). 
The project to train Stable Diffusion 2 was led by Robin Rombach and Katherine Crowson from [Stability AI](https://stability.ai/) and [LAION](https://laion.ai/).

*The Stable Diffusion 2.0 release includes robust text-to-image models trained using a brand new text encoder (OpenCLIP), developed by LAION with support from Stability AI, which greatly improves the quality of the generated images compared to earlier V1 releases. The text-to-image models in this release can generate images with default resolutions of both 512x512 pixels and 768x768 pixels. 
These models are trained on an aesthetic subset of the [LAION-5B dataset](https://laion.ai/blog/laion-5b/) created by the DeepFloyd team at Stability AI, which is then further filtered to remove adult content using [LAION’s NSFW filter](https://openreview.net/forum?id=M3Y74vmsMcY).*

For more details about how Stable Diffusion 2 works and how it differs from Stable Diffusion 1, please refer to the official [launch announcement post](https://stability.ai/blog/stable-diffusion-v2-release).

## Tips

### Available checkpoints:

Note that the architecture is more or less identical to [Stable Diffusion 1](./stable_diffusion/overview) so please refer to [this page](./stable_diffusion/overview) for API documentation.

- *Text-to-Image (512x512 resolution)*: [stabilityai/stable-diffusion-2-base](https://huggingface.co/stabilityai/stable-diffusion-2-base) with [`StableDiffusionPipeline`]
- *Text-to-Image (768x768 resolution)*: [stabilityai/stable-diffusion-2](https://huggingface.co/stabilityai/stable-diffusion-2) with [`StableDiffusionPipeline`]
- *Image Inpainting (512x512 resolution)*: [stabilityai/stable-diffusion-2-inpainting](https://huggingface.co/stabilityai/stable-diffusion-2-inpainting) with [`StableDiffusionInpaintPipeline`]
- *Super-Resolution (x4 resolution resolution)*: [stable-diffusion-x4-upscaler](https://huggingface.co/stabilityai/stable-diffusion-x4-upscaler) [`StableDiffusionUpscalePipeline`]
- *Depth-to-Image (512x512 resolution)*: [stabilityai/stable-diffusion-2-depth](https://huggingface.co/stabilityai/stable-diffusion-2-depth) with [`StableDiffusionDepth2ImagePipeline`]

We recommend using the [`DPMSolverMultistepScheduler`] as it's currently the fastest scheduler there is.


### Text-to-Image

- *Text-to-Image (512x512 resolution)*: [stabilityai/stable-diffusion-2-base](https://huggingface.co/stabilityai/stable-diffusion-2-base) with [`StableDiffusionPipeline`]

```python
from diffusers import DiffusionPipeline, DPMSolverMultistepScheduler
import torch

repo_id = "stabilityai/stable-diffusion-2-base"
pipe = DiffusionPipeline.from_pretrained(repo_id, torch_dtype=torch.float16, revision="fp16")

pipe.scheduler = DPMSolverMultistepScheduler.from_config(pipe.scheduler.config)
pipe = pipe.to("cuda")

prompt = "High quality photo of an astronaut riding a horse in space"
image = pipe(prompt, num_inference_steps=25).images[0]
image.save("astronaut.png")
```

- *Text-to-Image (768x768 resolution)*: [stabilityai/stable-diffusion-2](https://huggingface.co/stabilityai/stable-diffusion-2) with [`StableDiffusionPipeline`]

```python
from diffusers import DiffusionPipeline, DPMSolverMultistepScheduler
import torch

repo_id = "stabilityai/stable-diffusion-2"
pipe = DiffusionPipeline.from_pretrained(repo_id, torch_dtype=torch.float16, revision="fp16")

pipe.scheduler = DPMSolverMultistepScheduler.from_config(pipe.scheduler.config)
pipe = pipe.to("cuda")

prompt = "High quality photo of an astronaut riding a horse in space"
image = pipe(prompt, guidance_scale=9, num_inference_steps=25).images[0]
image.save("astronaut.png")
```

### Image Inpainting

- *Image Inpainting (512x512 resolution)*: [stabilityai/stable-diffusion-2-inpainting](https://huggingface.co/stabilityai/stable-diffusion-2-inpainting) with [`StableDiffusionInpaintPipeline`]

```python
import PIL
import requests
import torch
from io import BytesIO

from diffusers import DiffusionPipeline, DPMSolverMultistepScheduler


def download_image(url):
    response = requests.get(url)
    return PIL.Image.open(BytesIO(response.content)).convert("RGB")


img_url = "https://raw.githubusercontent.com/CompVis/latent-diffusion/main/data/inpainting_examples/overture-creations-5sI6fQgYIuo.png"
mask_url = "https://raw.githubusercontent.com/CompVis/latent-diffusion/main/data/inpainting_examples/overture-creations-5sI6fQgYIuo_mask.png"

init_image = download_image(img_url).resize((512, 512))
mask_image = download_image(mask_url).resize((512, 512))

repo_id = "stabilityai/stable-diffusion-2-inpainting"
pipe = DiffusionPipeline.from_pretrained(repo_id, torch_dtype=torch.float16, revision="fp16")

pipe.scheduler = DPMSolverMultistepScheduler.from_config(pipe.scheduler.config)
pipe = pipe.to("cuda")

prompt = "Face of a yellow cat, high resolution, sitting on a park bench"
image = pipe(prompt=prompt, image=init_image, mask_image=mask_image, num_inference_steps=25).images[0]

image.save("yellow_cat.png")
```

### Super-Resolution

- *Image Upscaling (x4 resolution resolution)*: [stable-diffusion-x4-upscaler](https://huggingface.co/stabilityai/stable-diffusion-x4-upscaler) with [`StableDiffusionUpscalePipeline`]


```python
import requests
from PIL import Image
from io import BytesIO
from diffusers import StableDiffusionUpscalePipeline
import torch

# load model and scheduler
model_id = "stabilityai/stable-diffusion-x4-upscaler"
pipeline = StableDiffusionUpscalePipeline.from_pretrained(model_id, torch_dtype=torch.float16)
pipeline = pipeline.to("cuda")

# let's download an  image
url = "https://huggingface.co/datasets/hf-internal-testing/diffusers-images/resolve/main/sd2-upscale/low_res_cat.png"
response = requests.get(url)
low_res_img = Image.open(BytesIO(response.content)).convert("RGB")
low_res_img = low_res_img.resize((128, 128))
prompt = "a white cat"
upscaled_image = pipeline(prompt=prompt, image=low_res_img).images[0]
upscaled_image.save("upsampled_cat.png")
```

### Depth-to-Image

- *Depth-Guided Text-to-Image*: [stabilityai/stable-diffusion-2-depth](https://huggingface.co/stabilityai/stable-diffusion-2-depth) [`StableDiffusionDepth2ImagePipeline`]


```python
import torch
import requests
from PIL import Image

from diffusers import StableDiffusionDepth2ImgPipeline

pipe = StableDiffusionDepth2ImgPipeline.from_pretrained(
    "stabilityai/stable-diffusion-2-depth",
    torch_dtype=torch.float16,
).to("cuda")


url = "http://images.cocodataset.org/val2017/000000039769.jpg"
init_image = Image.open(requests.get(url, stream=True).raw)
prompt = "two tigers"
n_propmt = "bad, deformed, ugly, bad anotomy"
image = pipe(prompt=prompt, image=init_image, negative_prompt=n_propmt, strength=0.7).images[0]
```

### How to load and use different schedulers.

The stable diffusion pipeline uses [`DDIMScheduler`] scheduler by default. But `diffusers` provides many other schedulers that can be used with the stable diffusion pipeline such as [`PNDMScheduler`], [`LMSDiscreteScheduler`], [`EulerDiscreteScheduler`], [`EulerAncestralDiscreteScheduler`] etc.
To use a different scheduler, you can either change it via the [`ConfigMixin.from_config`] method or pass the `scheduler` argument to the `from_pretrained` method of the pipeline. For example, to use the [`EulerDiscreteScheduler`], you can do the following:

```python
>>> from diffusers import StableDiffusionPipeline, EulerDiscreteScheduler

>>> pipeline = StableDiffusionPipeline.from_pretrained("stabilityai/stable-diffusion-2")
>>> pipeline.scheduler = EulerDiscreteScheduler.from_config(pipeline.scheduler.config)

>>> # or
>>> euler_scheduler = EulerDiscreteScheduler.from_pretrained("stabilityai/stable-diffusion-2", subfolder="scheduler")
>>> pipeline = StableDiffusionPipeline.from_pretrained("stabilityai/stable-diffusion-2", scheduler=euler_scheduler)
```
