docs/source/api/pipelines/stable_diffusion.mdx, before:

<!--Copyright 2022 The HuggingFace Team. All rights reserved.

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with
the License. You may obtain a copy of the License at

http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software distributed under the License is distributed on
an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See the License for the
specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
-->

# Stable diffusion pipelines

Stable Diffusion is a text-to-image _latent diffusion_ model created by the researchers and engineers from [CompVis](https://github.com/CompVis), [Stability AI](https://stability.ai/) and [LAION](https://laion.ai/). It's trained on 512x512 images from a subset of the [LAION-5B](https://laion.ai/blog/laion-5b/) dataset. This model uses a frozen CLIP ViT-L/14 text encoder to condition the model on text prompts. With its 860M UNet and 123M text encoder, the model is relatively lightweight and can run on consumer GPUs.

Latent diffusion is the research on top of which Stable Diffusion was built. It was proposed in [High-Resolution Image Synthesis with Latent Diffusion Models](https://arxiv.org/abs/2112.10752) by Robin Rombach, Andreas Blattmann, Dominik Lorenz, Patrick Esser, Björn Ommer. You can learn more details about it in the [specific pipeline for latent diffusion](pipelines/latent_diffusion) that is part of 🤗 Diffusers.

For more details about how Stable Diffusion works and how it differs from the base latent diffusion model, please refer to the official [launch announcement post](https://stability.ai/blog/stable-diffusion-announcement) and [this section of our own blog post](https://huggingface.co/blog/stable_diffusion#how-does-stable-diffusion-work).

*Tips*:
- To tweak your prompts on a specific result you liked, you can generate your own latents, as demonstrated in the following notebook: [![Open In Colab](https://colab.research.google.com/assets/colab-badge.svg)](https://colab.research.google.com/github/pcuenca/diffusers-examples/blob/main/notebooks/stable-diffusion-seeds.ipynb)

*Overview*:

| Pipeline | Tasks | Colab | Demo
|---|---|:---:|:---:|
| [pipeline_stable_diffusion.py](https://github.com/huggingface/diffusers/blob/main/src/diffusers/pipelines/stable_diffusion/pipeline_stable_diffusion.py) | *Text-to-Image Generation* | [![Open In Colab](https://colab.research.google.com/assets/colab-badge.svg)](https://colab.research.google.com/github/huggingface/notebooks/blob/main/diffusers/stable_diffusion.ipynb) | [🤗 Stable Diffusion](https://huggingface.co/spaces/stabilityai/stable-diffusion)
| [pipeline_stable_diffusion_img2img.py](https://github.com/huggingface/diffusers/blob/main/src/diffusers/pipelines/stable_diffusion/pipeline_stable_diffusion_img2img.py) | *Image-to-Image Text-Guided Generation* | [![Open In Colab](https://colab.research.google.com/assets/colab-badge.svg)](https://colab.research.google.com/github/huggingface/notebooks/blob/main/diffusers/image_2_image_using_diffusers.ipynb) | [🤗 Diffuse the Rest](https://huggingface.co/spaces/huggingface/diffuse-the-rest)
| [pipeline_stable_diffusion_inpaint.py](https://github.com/huggingface/diffusers/blob/main/src/diffusers/pipelines/stable_diffusion/pipeline_stable_diffusion_inpaint.py) | **Experimental** – *Text-Guided Image Inpainting* | [![Open In Colab](https://colab.research.google.com/assets/colab-badge.svg)](https://colab.research.google.com/github/huggingface/notebooks/blob/main/diffusers/in_painting_with_stable_diffusion_using_diffusers.ipynb) | Coming soon

## Tips

If you want to use all possible use cases in a single `DiffusionPipeline` you can either:
- Make use of the [Stable Diffusion Mega Pipeline](https://github.com/huggingface/diffusers/tree/main/examples/community#stable-diffusion-mega) or 
- Make use of the `components` functionality to instantiate all components in the most memory-efficient way:

```python
>>> from diffusers import (
...     StableDiffusionPipeline,
...     StableDiffusionImg2ImgPipeline,
...     StableDiffusionInpaintPipeline,
... )

>>> img2text = StableDiffusionPipeline.from_pretrained("CompVis/stable-diffusion-v1-4")
>>> img2img = StableDiffusionImg2ImgPipeline(**img2text.components)
>>> inpaint = StableDiffusionInpaintPipeline(**img2text.components)

>>> # now you can use img2text(...), img2img(...), inpaint(...) just like the call methods of each respective pipeline
```

## StableDiffusionPipelineOutput
[[autodoc]] pipelines.stable_diffusion.StableDiffusionPipelineOutput

## StableDiffusionPipeline
[[autodoc]] StableDiffusionPipeline
	- __call__
	- enable_attention_slicing
	- disable_attention_slicing

## StableDiffusionImg2ImgPipeline
[[autodoc]] StableDiffusionImg2ImgPipeline
	- __call__
	- enable_attention_slicing
	- disable_attention_slicing

## StableDiffusionInpaintPipeline
[[autodoc]] StableDiffusionInpaintPipeline
	- __call__
	- enable_attention_slicing
	- disable_attention_slicing

Commit message:

[docs] add euler scheduler in docs, how to use differnet schedulers  (#1089)
* add euler scheduler in docs

* add a section for how to use different scheds

* address patrck's comments

docs/source/api/pipelines/stable_diffusion.mdx, after:

<!--Copyright 2022 The HuggingFace Team. All rights reserved.

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with
the License. You may obtain a copy of the License at

http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software distributed under the License is distributed on
an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See the License for the
specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
-->

# Stable diffusion pipelines

Stable Diffusion is a text-to-image _latent diffusion_ model created by the researchers and engineers from [CompVis](https://github.com/CompVis), [Stability AI](https://stability.ai/) and [LAION](https://laion.ai/). It's trained on 512x512 images from a subset of the [LAION-5B](https://laion.ai/blog/laion-5b/) dataset. This model uses a frozen CLIP ViT-L/14 text encoder to condition the model on text prompts. With its 860M UNet and 123M text encoder, the model is relatively lightweight and can run on consumer GPUs.

Latent diffusion is the research on top of which Stable Diffusion was built. It was proposed in [High-Resolution Image Synthesis with Latent Diffusion Models](https://arxiv.org/abs/2112.10752) by Robin Rombach, Andreas Blattmann, Dominik Lorenz, Patrick Esser, Björn Ommer. You can learn more details about it in the [specific pipeline for latent diffusion](pipelines/latent_diffusion) that is part of 🤗 Diffusers.

For more details about how Stable Diffusion works and how it differs from the base latent diffusion model, please refer to the official [launch announcement post](https://stability.ai/blog/stable-diffusion-announcement) and [this section of our own blog post](https://huggingface.co/blog/stable_diffusion#how-does-stable-diffusion-work).

*Tips*:
- To tweak your prompts on a specific result you liked, you can generate your own latents, as demonstrated in the following notebook: [![Open In Colab](https://colab.research.google.com/assets/colab-badge.svg)](https://colab.research.google.com/github/pcuenca/diffusers-examples/blob/main/notebooks/stable-diffusion-seeds.ipynb)

*Overview*:

| Pipeline | Tasks | Colab | Demo
|---|---|:---:|:---:|
| [pipeline_stable_diffusion.py](https://github.com/huggingface/diffusers/blob/main/src/diffusers/pipelines/stable_diffusion/pipeline_stable_diffusion.py) | *Text-to-Image Generation* | [![Open In Colab](https://colab.research.google.com/assets/colab-badge.svg)](https://colab.research.google.com/github/huggingface/notebooks/blob/main/diffusers/stable_diffusion.ipynb) | [🤗 Stable Diffusion](https://huggingface.co/spaces/stabilityai/stable-diffusion)
| [pipeline_stable_diffusion_img2img.py](https://github.com/huggingface/diffusers/blob/main/src/diffusers/pipelines/stable_diffusion/pipeline_stable_diffusion_img2img.py) | *Image-to-Image Text-Guided Generation* | [![Open In Colab](https://colab.research.google.com/assets/colab-badge.svg)](https://colab.research.google.com/github/huggingface/notebooks/blob/main/diffusers/image_2_image_using_diffusers.ipynb) | [🤗 Diffuse the Rest](https://huggingface.co/spaces/huggingface/diffuse-the-rest)
| [pipeline_stable_diffusion_inpaint.py](https://github.com/huggingface/diffusers/blob/main/src/diffusers/pipelines/stable_diffusion/pipeline_stable_diffusion_inpaint.py) | **Experimental** – *Text-Guided Image Inpainting* | [![Open In Colab](https://colab.research.google.com/assets/colab-badge.svg)](https://colab.research.google.com/github/huggingface/notebooks/blob/main/diffusers/in_painting_with_stable_diffusion_using_diffusers.ipynb) | Coming soon

## Tips

### How to load and use different schedulers.

The stable diffusion pipeline uses [`PNDMScheduler`] scheduler by default. But `diffusers` provides many other schedulers that can be used with the stable diffusion pipeline such as [`DDIMScheduler`], [`LMSDiscreteScheduler`], [`EulerDiscreteScheduler`], [`EulerAncestralDiscreteScheduler`] etc.
To use a different scheduler, you can pass the `scheduler` argument to `from_pretrained` method of the pipeline. For example, to use the [`EulerDiscreteScheduler`], you can do the following:

```python
from diffusers import StableDiffusionPipeline, EulerDiscreteScheduler

euler_scheduler = EulerDiscreteScheduler.from_config("CompVis/stable-diffusion-v1-4", subfolder="scheduler")
pipeline = StableDiffusionPipeline.from_pretrained("CompVis/stable-diffusion-v1-4", scheduler=euler_scheduler)
```


### How to conver all use cases with multiple or single pipeline

If you want to use all possible use cases in a single `DiffusionPipeline` you can either:
- Make use of the [Stable Diffusion Mega Pipeline](https://github.com/huggingface/diffusers/tree/main/examples/community#stable-diffusion-mega) or 
- Make use of the `components` functionality to instantiate all components in the most memory-efficient way:

```python
>>> from diffusers import (
...     StableDiffusionPipeline,
...     StableDiffusionImg2ImgPipeline,
...     StableDiffusionInpaintPipeline,
... )

>>> img2text = StableDiffusionPipeline.from_pretrained("CompVis/stable-diffusion-v1-4")
>>> img2img = StableDiffusionImg2ImgPipeline(**img2text.components)
>>> inpaint = StableDiffusionInpaintPipeline(**img2text.components)

>>> # now you can use img2text(...), img2img(...), inpaint(...) just like the call methods of each respective pipeline
```

## StableDiffusionPipelineOutput
[[autodoc]] pipelines.stable_diffusion.StableDiffusionPipelineOutput

## StableDiffusionPipeline
[[autodoc]] StableDiffusionPipeline
	- __call__
	- enable_attention_slicing
	- disable_attention_slicing

## StableDiffusionImg2ImgPipeline
[[autodoc]] StableDiffusionImg2ImgPipeline
	- __call__
	- enable_attention_slicing
	- disable_attention_slicing

## StableDiffusionInpaintPipeline
[[autodoc]] StableDiffusionInpaintPipeline
	- __call__
	- enable_attention_slicing
	- disable_attention_slicing
