examples/dreambooth/README.md, before:

# DreamBooth training example

[DreamBooth](https://arxiv.org/abs/2208.12242) is a method to personalize text2image models like stable diffusion given just a few(3~5) images of a subject.
The `train_dreambooth.py` script shows how to implement the training procedure and adapt it for stable diffusion.


## Running locally with PyTorch
### Installing the dependencies

Before running the scripts, make sure to install the library's training dependencies:

```bash
pip install -U -r requirements.txt
```

And initialize an [🤗Accelerate](https://github.com/huggingface/accelerate/) environment with:

```bash
accelerate config
```

### Dog toy example

You need to accept the model license before downloading or using the weights. In this example we'll use model version `v1-4`, so you'll need to visit [its card](https://huggingface.co/CompVis/stable-diffusion-v1-4), read the license and tick the checkbox if you agree. 

You have to be a registered user in 🤗 Hugging Face Hub, and you'll also need to use an access token for the code to work. For more information on access tokens, please refer to [this section of the documentation](https://huggingface.co/docs/hub/security-tokens).

Run the following command to authenticate your token

```bash
huggingface-cli login
```

If you have already cloned the repo, then you won't need to go through these steps.

<br>

Now let's get our dataset. Download images from [here](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1BO_dyz-p65qhBRRMRA4TbZ8qW4rB99JZ) and save them in a directory. This will be our training data.

And launch the training using

```bash
export MODEL_NAME="CompVis/stable-diffusion-v1-4"
export INSTANCE_DIR="path-to-instance-images"
export OUTPUT_DIR="path-to-save-model"

accelerate launch train_dreambooth.py \
  --pretrained_model_name_or_path=$MODEL_NAME  \
  --instance_data_dir=$INSTANCE_DIR \
  --output_dir=$OUTPUT_DIR \
  --instance_prompt="a photo of sks dog" \
  --resolution=512 \
  --train_batch_size=1 \
  --gradient_accumulation_steps=1 \
  --learning_rate=5e-6 \
  --lr_scheduler="constant" \
  --lr_warmup_steps=0 \
  --max_train_steps=400
```

### Training with prior-preservation loss

Prior-preservation is used to avoid overfitting and language-drift. Refer to the paper to learn more about it. For prior-preservation we first generate images using the model with a class prompt and then use those during training along with our data.
According to the paper, it's recommended to generate `num_epochs * num_samples` images for prior-preservation. 200-300 works well for most cases.

```bash
export MODEL_NAME="CompVis/stable-diffusion-v1-4"
export INSTANCE_DIR="path-to-instance-images"
export CLASS_DIR="path-to-class-images"
export OUTPUT_DIR="path-to-save-model"

accelerate launch train_dreambooth.py \
  --pretrained_model_name_or_path=$MODEL_NAME  \
  --instance_data_dir=$INSTANCE_DIR \
  --class_data_dir=$CLASS_DIR \
  --output_dir=$OUTPUT_DIR \
  --with_prior_preservation --prior_loss_weight=1.0 \
  --instance_prompt="a photo of sks dog" \
  --class_prompt="a photo of dog" \
  --resolution=512 \
  --train_batch_size=1 \
  --gradient_accumulation_steps=1 \
  --learning_rate=5e-6 \
  --lr_scheduler="constant" \
  --lr_warmup_steps=0 \
  --num_class_images=200 \
  --max_train_steps=800
```


### Training on a 16GB GPU:

With the help of gradient checkpointing and the 8-bit optimizer from bitsandbytes it's possible to run train dreambooth on a 16GB GPU.

Install `bitsandbytes` with `pip install bitsandbytes`

```bash
export MODEL_NAME="CompVis/stable-diffusion-v1-4"
export INSTANCE_DIR="path-to-instance-images"
export CLASS_DIR="path-to-class-images"
export OUTPUT_DIR="path-to-save-model"

accelerate launch train_dreambooth.py \
  --pretrained_model_name_or_path=$MODEL_NAME  \
  --instance_data_dir=$INSTANCE_DIR \
  --class_data_dir=$CLASS_DIR \
  --output_dir=$OUTPUT_DIR \
  --with_prior_preservation --prior_loss_weight=1.0 \
  --instance_prompt="a photo of sks dog" \
  --class_prompt="a photo of dog" \
  --resolution=512 \
  --train_batch_size=1 \
  --gradient_accumulation_steps=2 --gradient_checkpointing \
  --use_8bit_adam \
  --learning_rate=5e-6 \
  --lr_scheduler="constant" \
  --lr_warmup_steps=0 \
  --num_class_images=200 \
  --max_train_steps=800
```

### Training on a 8 GB GPU:

By using [DeepSpeed](https://www.deepspeed.ai/) it's possible to offload some
tensors from VRAM to either CPU or NVME allowing to train with less VRAM.

DeepSpeed needs to be enabled with `accelerate config`. During configuration
answer yes to "Do you want to use DeepSpeed?". With DeepSpeed stage 2, fp16
mixed precision and offloading both parameters and optimizer state to cpu it's
possible to train on under 8 GB VRAM with a drawback of requiring significantly
more RAM (about 25 GB). See [documentation](https://huggingface.co/docs/accelerate/usage_guides/deepspeed) for more DeepSpeed configuration options.

Changing the default Adam optimizer to DeepSpeed's special version of Adam
`deepspeed.ops.adam.DeepSpeedCPUAdam` gives a substantial speedup but enabling
it requires CUDA toolchain with the same version as pytorch. 8-bit optimizer
does not seem to be compatible with DeepSpeed at the moment.

```bash
export MODEL_NAME="CompVis/stable-diffusion-v1-4"
export INSTANCE_DIR="path-to-instance-images"
export CLASS_DIR="path-to-class-images"
export OUTPUT_DIR="path-to-save-model"

accelerate launch train_dreambooth.py \
  --pretrained_model_name_or_path=$MODEL_NAME \
  --instance_data_dir=$INSTANCE_DIR \
  --class_data_dir=$CLASS_DIR \
  --output_dir=$OUTPUT_DIR \
  --with_prior_preservation --prior_loss_weight=1.0 \
  --instance_prompt="a photo of sks dog" \
  --class_prompt="a photo of dog" \
  --resolution=512 \
  --train_batch_size=1 \
  --sample_batch_size=1 \
  --gradient_accumulation_steps=1 --gradient_checkpointing \
  --learning_rate=5e-6 \
  --lr_scheduler="constant" \
  --lr_warmup_steps=0 \
  --num_class_images=200 \
  --max_train_steps=800 \
  --mixed_precision=fp16
```

### Fine-tune text encoder with the UNet.

The script also allows to fine-tune the `text_encoder` along with the `unet`. It's been observed experimentally that fine-tuning `text_encoder` gives much better results especially on faces. 
Pass the `--train_text_encoder` argument to the script to enable training `text_encoder`.

___Note: Training text encoder requires more memory, with this option the training won't fit on 16GB GPU. It needs at least 24GB VRAM.___

```bash
export MODEL_NAME="CompVis/stable-diffusion-v1-4"
export INSTANCE_DIR="path-to-instance-images"
export CLASS_DIR="path-to-class-images"
export OUTPUT_DIR="path-to-save-model"

accelerate launch train_dreambooth.py \
  --pretrained_model_name_or_path=$MODEL_NAME  \
  --train_text_encoder \
  --instance_data_dir=$INSTANCE_DIR \
  --class_data_dir=$CLASS_DIR \
  --output_dir=$OUTPUT_DIR \
  --with_prior_preservation --prior_loss_weight=1.0 \
  --instance_prompt="a photo of sks dog" \
  --class_prompt="a photo of dog" \
  --resolution=512 \
  --train_batch_size=1 \
  --use_8bit_adam \
  --gradient_checkpointing \
  --learning_rate=2e-6 \
  --lr_scheduler="constant" \
  --lr_warmup_steps=0 \
  --num_class_images=200 \
  --max_train_steps=800
```

### Inference

Once you have trained a model using above command, the inference can be done simply using the `StableDiffusionPipeline`. Make sure to include the `identifier`(e.g. sks in above example) in your prompt.

```python
from diffusers import StableDiffusionPipeline
import torch

model_id = "path-to-your-trained-model"
pipe = StableDiffusionPipeline.from_pretrained(model_id, torch_dtype=torch.float16).to("cuda")

prompt = "A photo of sks dog in a bucket"
image = pipe(prompt, num_inference_steps=50, guidance_scale=7.5).images[0]

image.save("dog-bucket.png")
```


## Running with Flax/JAX

For faster training on TPUs and GPUs you can leverage the flax training example. Follow the instructions above to get the model and dataset before running the script.

____Note: The flax example don't yet support features like gradient checkpoint, gradient accumulation etc, so to use flax for faster training we will need >30GB cards.___


Before running the scripts, make sure to install the library's training dependencies:

```bash
pip install -U -r requirements_flax.txt
```


### Training without prior preservation loss

```bash
export MODEL_NAME="duongna/stable-diffusion-v1-4-flax"
export INSTANCE_DIR="path-to-instance-images"
export OUTPUT_DIR="path-to-save-model"

python train_dreambooth_flax.py \
  --pretrained_model_name_or_path=$MODEL_NAME  \
  --instance_data_dir=$INSTANCE_DIR \
  --output_dir=$OUTPUT_DIR \
  --instance_prompt="a photo of sks dog" \
  --resolution=512 \
  --train_batch_size=1 \
  --learning_rate=5e-6 \
  --max_train_steps=400
```


### Training with prior preservation loss

```bash
export MODEL_NAME="duongna/stable-diffusion-v1-4-flax"
export INSTANCE_DIR="path-to-instance-images"
export CLASS_DIR="path-to-class-images"
export OUTPUT_DIR="path-to-save-model"

python train_dreambooth_flax.py \
  --pretrained_model_name_or_path=$MODEL_NAME  \
  --instance_data_dir=$INSTANCE_DIR \
  --class_data_dir=$CLASS_DIR \
  --output_dir=$OUTPUT_DIR \
  --with_prior_preservation --prior_loss_weight=1.0 \
  --instance_prompt="a photo of sks dog" \
  --class_prompt="a photo of dog" \
  --resolution=512 \
  --train_batch_size=1 \
  --learning_rate=5e-6 \
  --num_class_images=200 \
  --max_train_steps=800
```


### Fine-tune text encoder with the UNet.

```bash
export MODEL_NAME="duongna/stable-diffusion-v1-4-flax"
export INSTANCE_DIR="path-to-instance-images"
export CLASS_DIR="path-to-class-images"
export OUTPUT_DIR="path-to-save-model"

python train_dreambooth_flax.py \
  --pretrained_model_name_or_path=$MODEL_NAME  \
  --train_text_encoder \
  --instance_data_dir=$INSTANCE_DIR \
  --class_data_dir=$CLASS_DIR \
  --output_dir=$OUTPUT_DIR \
  --with_prior_preservation --prior_loss_weight=1.0 \
  --instance_prompt="a photo of sks dog" \
  --class_prompt="a photo of dog" \
  --resolution=512 \
  --train_batch_size=1 \
  --learning_rate=2e-6 \
  --num_class_images=200 \
  --max_train_steps=800
```

Commit message:

[dreambooth] link to bitsandbytes readme for installation  (#1229)
* add 'conda install cudatoolkit' to dreambooth 'training on 16GB' example 

fixes https://github.com/huggingface/diffusers/issues/1207

* Apply suggestions from code review

Co-authored-by: Suraj Patil <surajp815@gmail.com>

examples/dreambooth/README.md, after:

# DreamBooth training example

[DreamBooth](https://arxiv.org/abs/2208.12242) is a method to personalize text2image models like stable diffusion given just a few(3~5) images of a subject.
The `train_dreambooth.py` script shows how to implement the training procedure and adapt it for stable diffusion.


## Running locally with PyTorch
### Installing the dependencies

Before running the scripts, make sure to install the library's training dependencies:

```bash
pip install -U -r requirements.txt
```

And initialize an [🤗Accelerate](https://github.com/huggingface/accelerate/) environment with:

```bash
accelerate config
```

### Dog toy example

You need to accept the model license before downloading or using the weights. In this example we'll use model version `v1-4`, so you'll need to visit [its card](https://huggingface.co/CompVis/stable-diffusion-v1-4), read the license and tick the checkbox if you agree. 

You have to be a registered user in 🤗 Hugging Face Hub, and you'll also need to use an access token for the code to work. For more information on access tokens, please refer to [this section of the documentation](https://huggingface.co/docs/hub/security-tokens).

Run the following command to authenticate your token

```bash
huggingface-cli login
```

If you have already cloned the repo, then you won't need to go through these steps.

<br>

Now let's get our dataset. Download images from [here](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1BO_dyz-p65qhBRRMRA4TbZ8qW4rB99JZ) and save them in a directory. This will be our training data.

And launch the training using

```bash
export MODEL_NAME="CompVis/stable-diffusion-v1-4"
export INSTANCE_DIR="path-to-instance-images"
export OUTPUT_DIR="path-to-save-model"

accelerate launch train_dreambooth.py \
  --pretrained_model_name_or_path=$MODEL_NAME  \
  --instance_data_dir=$INSTANCE_DIR \
  --output_dir=$OUTPUT_DIR \
  --instance_prompt="a photo of sks dog" \
  --resolution=512 \
  --train_batch_size=1 \
  --gradient_accumulation_steps=1 \
  --learning_rate=5e-6 \
  --lr_scheduler="constant" \
  --lr_warmup_steps=0 \
  --max_train_steps=400
```

### Training with prior-preservation loss

Prior-preservation is used to avoid overfitting and language-drift. Refer to the paper to learn more about it. For prior-preservation we first generate images using the model with a class prompt and then use those during training along with our data.
According to the paper, it's recommended to generate `num_epochs * num_samples` images for prior-preservation. 200-300 works well for most cases.

```bash
export MODEL_NAME="CompVis/stable-diffusion-v1-4"
export INSTANCE_DIR="path-to-instance-images"
export CLASS_DIR="path-to-class-images"
export OUTPUT_DIR="path-to-save-model"

accelerate launch train_dreambooth.py \
  --pretrained_model_name_or_path=$MODEL_NAME  \
  --instance_data_dir=$INSTANCE_DIR \
  --class_data_dir=$CLASS_DIR \
  --output_dir=$OUTPUT_DIR \
  --with_prior_preservation --prior_loss_weight=1.0 \
  --instance_prompt="a photo of sks dog" \
  --class_prompt="a photo of dog" \
  --resolution=512 \
  --train_batch_size=1 \
  --gradient_accumulation_steps=1 \
  --learning_rate=5e-6 \
  --lr_scheduler="constant" \
  --lr_warmup_steps=0 \
  --num_class_images=200 \
  --max_train_steps=800
```


### Training on a 16GB GPU:

With the help of gradient checkpointing and the 8-bit optimizer from bitsandbytes it's possible to run train dreambooth on a 16GB GPU.

To install `bitandbytes` please refer to this [readme](https://github.com/TimDettmers/bitsandbytes#requirements--installation).

```bash
export MODEL_NAME="CompVis/stable-diffusion-v1-4"
export INSTANCE_DIR="path-to-instance-images"
export CLASS_DIR="path-to-class-images"
export OUTPUT_DIR="path-to-save-model"

accelerate launch train_dreambooth.py \
  --pretrained_model_name_or_path=$MODEL_NAME  \
  --instance_data_dir=$INSTANCE_DIR \
  --class_data_dir=$CLASS_DIR \
  --output_dir=$OUTPUT_DIR \
  --with_prior_preservation --prior_loss_weight=1.0 \
  --instance_prompt="a photo of sks dog" \
  --class_prompt="a photo of dog" \
  --resolution=512 \
  --train_batch_size=1 \
  --gradient_accumulation_steps=2 --gradient_checkpointing \
  --use_8bit_adam \
  --learning_rate=5e-6 \
  --lr_scheduler="constant" \
  --lr_warmup_steps=0 \
  --num_class_images=200 \
  --max_train_steps=800
```

### Training on a 8 GB GPU:

By using [DeepSpeed](https://www.deepspeed.ai/) it's possible to offload some
tensors from VRAM to either CPU or NVME allowing to train with less VRAM.

DeepSpeed needs to be enabled with `accelerate config`. During configuration
answer yes to "Do you want to use DeepSpeed?". With DeepSpeed stage 2, fp16
mixed precision and offloading both parameters and optimizer state to cpu it's
possible to train on under 8 GB VRAM with a drawback of requiring significantly
more RAM (about 25 GB). See [documentation](https://huggingface.co/docs/accelerate/usage_guides/deepspeed) for more DeepSpeed configuration options.

Changing the default Adam optimizer to DeepSpeed's special version of Adam
`deepspeed.ops.adam.DeepSpeedCPUAdam` gives a substantial speedup but enabling
it requires CUDA toolchain with the same version as pytorch. 8-bit optimizer
does not seem to be compatible with DeepSpeed at the moment.

```bash
export MODEL_NAME="CompVis/stable-diffusion-v1-4"
export INSTANCE_DIR="path-to-instance-images"
export CLASS_DIR="path-to-class-images"
export OUTPUT_DIR="path-to-save-model"

accelerate launch train_dreambooth.py \
  --pretrained_model_name_or_path=$MODEL_NAME \
  --instance_data_dir=$INSTANCE_DIR \
  --class_data_dir=$CLASS_DIR \
  --output_dir=$OUTPUT_DIR \
  --with_prior_preservation --prior_loss_weight=1.0 \
  --instance_prompt="a photo of sks dog" \
  --class_prompt="a photo of dog" \
  --resolution=512 \
  --train_batch_size=1 \
  --sample_batch_size=1 \
  --gradient_accumulation_steps=1 --gradient_checkpointing \
  --learning_rate=5e-6 \
  --lr_scheduler="constant" \
  --lr_warmup_steps=0 \
  --num_class_images=200 \
  --max_train_steps=800 \
  --mixed_precision=fp16
```

### Fine-tune text encoder with the UNet.

The script also allows to fine-tune the `text_encoder` along with the `unet`. It's been observed experimentally that fine-tuning `text_encoder` gives much better results especially on faces. 
Pass the `--train_text_encoder` argument to the script to enable training `text_encoder`.

___Note: Training text encoder requires more memory, with this option the training won't fit on 16GB GPU. It needs at least 24GB VRAM.___

```bash
export MODEL_NAME="CompVis/stable-diffusion-v1-4"
export INSTANCE_DIR="path-to-instance-images"
export CLASS_DIR="path-to-class-images"
export OUTPUT_DIR="path-to-save-model"

accelerate launch train_dreambooth.py \
  --pretrained_model_name_or_path=$MODEL_NAME  \
  --train_text_encoder \
  --instance_data_dir=$INSTANCE_DIR \
  --class_data_dir=$CLASS_DIR \
  --output_dir=$OUTPUT_DIR \
  --with_prior_preservation --prior_loss_weight=1.0 \
  --instance_prompt="a photo of sks dog" \
  --class_prompt="a photo of dog" \
  --resolution=512 \
  --train_batch_size=1 \
  --use_8bit_adam \
  --gradient_checkpointing \
  --learning_rate=2e-6 \
  --lr_scheduler="constant" \
  --lr_warmup_steps=0 \
  --num_class_images=200 \
  --max_train_steps=800
```

### Inference

Once you have trained a model using above command, the inference can be done simply using the `StableDiffusionPipeline`. Make sure to include the `identifier`(e.g. sks in above example) in your prompt.

```python
from diffusers import StableDiffusionPipeline
import torch

model_id = "path-to-your-trained-model"
pipe = StableDiffusionPipeline.from_pretrained(model_id, torch_dtype=torch.float16).to("cuda")

prompt = "A photo of sks dog in a bucket"
image = pipe(prompt, num_inference_steps=50, guidance_scale=7.5).images[0]

image.save("dog-bucket.png")
```


## Running with Flax/JAX

For faster training on TPUs and GPUs you can leverage the flax training example. Follow the instructions above to get the model and dataset before running the script.

____Note: The flax example don't yet support features like gradient checkpoint, gradient accumulation etc, so to use flax for faster training we will need >30GB cards.___


Before running the scripts, make sure to install the library's training dependencies:

```bash
pip install -U -r requirements_flax.txt
```


### Training without prior preservation loss

```bash
export MODEL_NAME="duongna/stable-diffusion-v1-4-flax"
export INSTANCE_DIR="path-to-instance-images"
export OUTPUT_DIR="path-to-save-model"

python train_dreambooth_flax.py \
  --pretrained_model_name_or_path=$MODEL_NAME  \
  --instance_data_dir=$INSTANCE_DIR \
  --output_dir=$OUTPUT_DIR \
  --instance_prompt="a photo of sks dog" \
  --resolution=512 \
  --train_batch_size=1 \
  --learning_rate=5e-6 \
  --max_train_steps=400
```


### Training with prior preservation loss

```bash
export MODEL_NAME="duongna/stable-diffusion-v1-4-flax"
export INSTANCE_DIR="path-to-instance-images"
export CLASS_DIR="path-to-class-images"
export OUTPUT_DIR="path-to-save-model"

python train_dreambooth_flax.py \
  --pretrained_model_name_or_path=$MODEL_NAME  \
  --instance_data_dir=$INSTANCE_DIR \
  --class_data_dir=$CLASS_DIR \
  --output_dir=$OUTPUT_DIR \
  --with_prior_preservation --prior_loss_weight=1.0 \
  --instance_prompt="a photo of sks dog" \
  --class_prompt="a photo of dog" \
  --resolution=512 \
  --train_batch_size=1 \
  --learning_rate=5e-6 \
  --num_class_images=200 \
  --max_train_steps=800
```


### Fine-tune text encoder with the UNet.

```bash
export MODEL_NAME="duongna/stable-diffusion-v1-4-flax"
export INSTANCE_DIR="path-to-instance-images"
export CLASS_DIR="path-to-class-images"
export OUTPUT_DIR="path-to-save-model"

python train_dreambooth_flax.py \
  --pretrained_model_name_or_path=$MODEL_NAME  \
  --train_text_encoder \
  --instance_data_dir=$INSTANCE_DIR \
  --class_data_dir=$CLASS_DIR \
  --output_dir=$OUTPUT_DIR \
  --with_prior_preservation --prior_loss_weight=1.0 \
  --instance_prompt="a photo of sks dog" \
  --class_prompt="a photo of dog" \
  --resolution=512 \
  --train_batch_size=1 \
  --learning_rate=2e-6 \
  --num_class_images=200 \
  --max_train_steps=800
```
