docs/source/en/index.mdx, before:

<!--Copyright 2023 The HuggingFace Team. All rights reserved.

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with
the License. You may obtain a copy of the License at

http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software distributed under the License is distributed on
an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See the License for the
specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
-->

<p align="center">
    <br>
    <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/huggingface/diffusers/77aadfee6a891ab9fcfb780f87c693f7a5beeb8e/docs/source/imgs/diffusers_library.jpg" width="400"/>
    <br>
</p>

# Diffusers

🤗 Diffusers is the go-to library for state-of-the-art pretrained diffusion models for generating images, audio, and even 3D structures of molecules. Whether you're looking for a simple inference solution or want to train your own diffusion model, 🤗 Diffusers is a modular toolbox that supports both. Our library is designed with a focus on [usability over performance](conceptual/philosophy#usability-over-performance), [simple over easy](conceptual/philosophy#simple-over-easy), and [customizability over abstractions](conceptual/philosophy#tweakable-contributorfriendly-over-abstraction).

The library has three main components:

- State-of-the-art [diffusion pipelines](api/pipelines/overview) for inference with just a few lines of code.
- Interchangeable [noise schedulers](api/schedulers/overview) for balancing trade-offs between generation speed and quality.
- Pretrained [models](api/models) that can be used as building blocks, and combined with schedulers, for creating your own end-to-end diffusion systems.

<div class="mt-10">
  <div class="w-full flex flex-col space-y-4 md:space-y-0 md:grid md:grid-cols-2 md:gap-y-4 md:gap-x-5">
    <a class="!no-underline border dark:border-gray-700 p-5 rounded-lg shadow hover:shadow-lg" href="./tutorials/tutorial_overview"
      ><div class="w-full text-center bg-gradient-to-br from-blue-400 to-blue-500 rounded-lg py-1.5 font-semibold mb-5 text-white text-lg leading-relaxed">Tutorials</div>
      <p class="text-gray-700">Learn the fundamental skills you need to start generating outputs, build your own diffusion system, and train a diffusion model. We recommend starting here if you're using 🤗 Diffusers for the first time!</p>
    </a>
    <a class="!no-underline border dark:border-gray-700 p-5 rounded-lg shadow hover:shadow-lg" href="./using-diffusers/loading_overview"
      ><div class="w-full text-center bg-gradient-to-br from-indigo-400 to-indigo-500 rounded-lg py-1.5 font-semibold mb-5 text-white text-lg leading-relaxed">How-to guides</div>
      <p class="text-gray-700">Practical guides for helping you load pipelines, models, and schedulers. You'll also learn how to use pipelines for specific tasks, control how outputs are generated, optimize for inference speed, and different training techniques.</p>
    </a>
    <a class="!no-underline border dark:border-gray-700 p-5 rounded-lg shadow hover:shadow-lg" href="./conceptual/philosophy"
      ><div class="w-full text-center bg-gradient-to-br from-pink-400 to-pink-500 rounded-lg py-1.5 font-semibold mb-5 text-white text-lg leading-relaxed">Conceptual guides</div>
      <p class="text-gray-700">Understand why the library was designed the way it was, and learn more about the ethical guidelines and safety implementations for using the library.</p>
   </a>
    <a class="!no-underline border dark:border-gray-700 p-5 rounded-lg shadow hover:shadow-lg" href="./api/models"
      ><div class="w-full text-center bg-gradient-to-br from-purple-400 to-purple-500 rounded-lg py-1.5 font-semibold mb-5 text-white text-lg leading-relaxed">Reference</div>
      <p class="text-gray-700">Technical descriptions of how 🤗 Diffusers classes and methods work.</p>
    </a>
  </div>
</div>

## Supported pipelines

| Pipeline | Paper/Repository | Tasks |
|---|---|:---:|
| [alt_diffusion](./api/pipelines/alt_diffusion) | [AltCLIP: Altering the Language Encoder in CLIP for Extended Language Capabilities](https://arxiv.org/abs/2211.06679) | Image-to-Image Text-Guided Generation |
| [audio_diffusion](./api/pipelines/audio_diffusion) | [Audio Diffusion](https://github.com/teticio/audio-diffusion.git) | Unconditional Audio Generation |
| [controlnet](./api/pipelines/stable_diffusion/controlnet) | [Adding Conditional Control to Text-to-Image Diffusion Models](https://arxiv.org/abs/2302.05543) | Image-to-Image Text-Guided Generation |
| [cycle_diffusion](./api/pipelines/cycle_diffusion) | [Unifying Diffusion Models' Latent Space, with Applications to CycleDiffusion and Guidance](https://arxiv.org/abs/2210.05559) | Image-to-Image Text-Guided Generation |
| [dance_diffusion](./api/pipelines/dance_diffusion) | [Dance Diffusion](https://github.com/williamberman/diffusers.git) | Unconditional Audio Generation |
| [ddpm](./api/pipelines/ddpm) | [Denoising Diffusion Probabilistic Models](https://arxiv.org/abs/2006.11239) | Unconditional Image Generation |
| [ddim](./api/pipelines/ddim) | [Denoising Diffusion Implicit Models](https://arxiv.org/abs/2010.02502) | Unconditional Image Generation |
| [latent_diffusion](./api/pipelines/latent_diffusion) | [High-Resolution Image Synthesis with Latent Diffusion Models](https://arxiv.org/abs/2112.10752)| Text-to-Image Generation |
| [latent_diffusion](./api/pipelines/latent_diffusion) | [High-Resolution Image Synthesis with Latent Diffusion Models](https://arxiv.org/abs/2112.10752)| Super Resolution Image-to-Image |
| [latent_diffusion_uncond](./api/pipelines/latent_diffusion_uncond) | [High-Resolution Image Synthesis with Latent Diffusion Models](https://arxiv.org/abs/2112.10752) | Unconditional Image Generation |
| [paint_by_example](./api/pipelines/paint_by_example) | [Paint by Example: Exemplar-based Image Editing with Diffusion Models](https://arxiv.org/abs/2211.13227) | Image-Guided Image Inpainting |
| [pndm](./api/pipelines/pndm) | [Pseudo Numerical Methods for Diffusion Models on Manifolds](https://arxiv.org/abs/2202.09778) | Unconditional Image Generation |
| [score_sde_ve](./api/pipelines/score_sde_ve) | [Score-Based Generative Modeling through Stochastic Differential Equations](https://openreview.net/forum?id=PxTIG12RRHS) | Unconditional Image Generation |
| [score_sde_vp](./api/pipelines/score_sde_vp) | [Score-Based Generative Modeling through Stochastic Differential Equations](https://openreview.net/forum?id=PxTIG12RRHS) | Unconditional Image Generation |
| [semantic_stable_diffusion](./api/pipelines/semantic_stable_diffusion) | [Semantic Guidance](https://arxiv.org/abs/2301.12247) | Text-Guided Generation |
| [stable_diffusion_text2img](./api/pipelines/stable_diffusion/text2img) | [Stable Diffusion](https://stability.ai/blog/stable-diffusion-public-release) | Text-to-Image Generation |
| [stable_diffusion_img2img](./api/pipelines/stable_diffusion/img2img) | [Stable Diffusion](https://stability.ai/blog/stable-diffusion-public-release) | Image-to-Image Text-Guided Generation |
| [stable_diffusion_inpaint](./api/pipelines/stable_diffusion/inpaint) | [Stable Diffusion](https://stability.ai/blog/stable-diffusion-public-release) | Text-Guided Image Inpainting |
| [stable_diffusion_panorama](./api/pipelines/stable_diffusion/panorama) | [MultiDiffusion](https://multidiffusion.github.io/) | Text-to-Panorama Generation |
| [stable_diffusion_pix2pix](./api/pipelines/stable_diffusion/pix2pix) | [InstructPix2Pix: Learning to Follow Image Editing Instructions](https://arxiv.org/abs/2211.09800)  | Text-Guided Image Editing|
| [stable_diffusion_pix2pix_zero](./api/pipelines/stable_diffusion/pix2pix_zero) | [Zero-shot Image-to-Image Translation](https://pix2pixzero.github.io/) | Text-Guided Image Editing |
| [stable_diffusion_attend_and_excite](./api/pipelines/stable_diffusion/attend_and_excite) | [Attend-and-Excite: Attention-Based Semantic Guidance for Text-to-Image Diffusion Models](https://arxiv.org/abs/2301.13826) | Text-to-Image Generation |
| [stable_diffusion_self_attention_guidance](./api/pipelines/stable_diffusion/self_attention_guidance) | [Improving Sample Quality of Diffusion Models Using Self-Attention Guidance](https://arxiv.org/abs/2210.00939) | Text-to-Image Generation |
| [stable_diffusion_image_variation](./stable_diffusion/image_variation) | [Stable Diffusion Image Variations](https://github.com/LambdaLabsML/lambda-diffusers#stable-diffusion-image-variations) | Image-to-Image Generation |
| [stable_diffusion_latent_upscale](./stable_diffusion/latent_upscale) | [Stable Diffusion Latent Upscaler](https://twitter.com/StabilityAI/status/1590531958815064065) | Text-Guided Super Resolution Image-to-Image |
| [stable_diffusion_2](./api/pipelines/stable_diffusion_2) | [Stable Diffusion 2](https://stability.ai/blog/stable-diffusion-v2-release) | Text-to-Image Generation |
| [stable_diffusion_2](./api/pipelines/stable_diffusion_2) | [Stable Diffusion 2](https://stability.ai/blog/stable-diffusion-v2-release) | Text-Guided Image Inpainting |
| [stable_diffusion_2](./api/pipelines/stable_diffusion_2) | [Depth-Conditional Stable Diffusion](https://github.com/Stability-AI/stablediffusion#depth-conditional-stable-diffusion) | Depth-to-Image Generation |
| [stable_diffusion_2](./api/pipelines/stable_diffusion_2) | [Stable Diffusion 2](https://stability.ai/blog/stable-diffusion-v2-release) | Text-Guided Super Resolution Image-to-Image |
| [stable_diffusion_safe](./api/pipelines/stable_diffusion_safe) | [Safe Stable Diffusion](https://arxiv.org/abs/2211.05105) | Text-Guided Generation |
| [stable_unclip](./stable_unclip) | Stable unCLIP | Text-to-Image Generation |
| [stable_unclip](./stable_unclip) | Stable unCLIP | Image-to-Image Text-Guided Generation |
| [stochastic_karras_ve](./api/pipelines/stochastic_karras_ve) | [Elucidating the Design Space of Diffusion-Based Generative Models](https://arxiv.org/abs/2206.00364) | Unconditional Image Generation |
| [unclip](./api/pipelines/unclip) | [Hierarchical Text-Conditional Image Generation with CLIP Latents](https://arxiv.org/abs/2204.06125)(implementation by [kakaobrain](https://github.com/kakaobrain/karlo)) | Text-to-Image Generation |
| [versatile_diffusion](./api/pipelines/versatile_diffusion) | [Versatile Diffusion: Text, Images and Variations All in One Diffusion Model](https://arxiv.org/abs/2211.08332) | Text-to-Image Generation |
| [versatile_diffusion](./api/pipelines/versatile_diffusion) | [Versatile Diffusion: Text, Images and Variations All in One Diffusion Model](https://arxiv.org/abs/2211.08332) | Image Variations Generation |
| [versatile_diffusion](./api/pipelines/versatile_diffusion) | [Versatile Diffusion: Text, Images and Variations All in One Diffusion Model](https://arxiv.org/abs/2211.08332) | Dual Image and Text Guided Generation |
| [vq_diffusion](./api/pipelines/vq_diffusion) | [Vector Quantized Diffusion Model for Text-to-Image Synthesis](https://arxiv.org/abs/2111.14822) | Text-to-Image Generation |

Commit message:

[MS Text To Video] Add first text to video (#2738)
* [MS Text To Video} Add first text to video

* upload

* make first model example

* match unet3d params

* make sure weights are correcctly converted

* improve

* forward pass works, but diff result

* make forward work

* fix more

* finish

* refactor video output class.

* feat: add support for a video export utility.

* fix: opencv availability check.

* run make fix-copies.

* add: docs for the model components.

* add: standalone pipeline doc.

* edit docstring of the pipeline.

* add: right path to TransformerTempModel

* add: first set of tests.

* complete fast tests for text to video.

* fix bug

* up

* three fast tests failing.

* add: note on slow tests

* make work with all schedulers

* apply styling.

* add slow tests

* change file name

* update

* more correction

* more fixes

* finish

* up

* Apply suggestions from code review

* up

* finish

* make copies

* fix pipeline tests

* fix more tests

* Apply suggestions from code review

Co-authored-by: Pedro Cuenca <pedro@huggingface.co>

* apply suggestions

* up

* revert

---------

Co-authored-by: Sayak Paul <spsayakpaul@gmail.com>
Co-authored-by: Pedro Cuenca <pedro@huggingface.co>

docs/source/en/index.mdx, after:

<!--Copyright 2023 The HuggingFace Team. All rights reserved.

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with
the License. You may obtain a copy of the License at

http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software distributed under the License is distributed on
an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See the License for the
specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
-->

<p align="center">
    <br>
    <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/huggingface/diffusers/77aadfee6a891ab9fcfb780f87c693f7a5beeb8e/docs/source/imgs/diffusers_library.jpg" width="400"/>
    <br>
</p>

# Diffusers

🤗 Diffusers is the go-to library for state-of-the-art pretrained diffusion models for generating images, audio, and even 3D structures of molecules. Whether you're looking for a simple inference solution or want to train your own diffusion model, 🤗 Diffusers is a modular toolbox that supports both. Our library is designed with a focus on [usability over performance](conceptual/philosophy#usability-over-performance), [simple over easy](conceptual/philosophy#simple-over-easy), and [customizability over abstractions](conceptual/philosophy#tweakable-contributorfriendly-over-abstraction).

The library has three main components:

- State-of-the-art [diffusion pipelines](api/pipelines/overview) for inference with just a few lines of code.
- Interchangeable [noise schedulers](api/schedulers/overview) for balancing trade-offs between generation speed and quality.
- Pretrained [models](api/models) that can be used as building blocks, and combined with schedulers, for creating your own end-to-end diffusion systems.

<div class="mt-10">
  <div class="w-full flex flex-col space-y-4 md:space-y-0 md:grid md:grid-cols-2 md:gap-y-4 md:gap-x-5">
    <a class="!no-underline border dark:border-gray-700 p-5 rounded-lg shadow hover:shadow-lg" href="./tutorials/tutorial_overview"
      ><div class="w-full text-center bg-gradient-to-br from-blue-400 to-blue-500 rounded-lg py-1.5 font-semibold mb-5 text-white text-lg leading-relaxed">Tutorials</div>
      <p class="text-gray-700">Learn the fundamental skills you need to start generating outputs, build your own diffusion system, and train a diffusion model. We recommend starting here if you're using 🤗 Diffusers for the first time!</p>
    </a>
    <a class="!no-underline border dark:border-gray-700 p-5 rounded-lg shadow hover:shadow-lg" href="./using-diffusers/loading_overview"
      ><div class="w-full text-center bg-gradient-to-br from-indigo-400 to-indigo-500 rounded-lg py-1.5 font-semibold mb-5 text-white text-lg leading-relaxed">How-to guides</div>
      <p class="text-gray-700">Practical guides for helping you load pipelines, models, and schedulers. You'll also learn how to use pipelines for specific tasks, control how outputs are generated, optimize for inference speed, and different training techniques.</p>
    </a>
    <a class="!no-underline border dark:border-gray-700 p-5 rounded-lg shadow hover:shadow-lg" href="./conceptual/philosophy"
      ><div class="w-full text-center bg-gradient-to-br from-pink-400 to-pink-500 rounded-lg py-1.5 font-semibold mb-5 text-white text-lg leading-relaxed">Conceptual guides</div>
      <p class="text-gray-700">Understand why the library was designed the way it was, and learn more about the ethical guidelines and safety implementations for using the library.</p>
   </a>
    <a class="!no-underline border dark:border-gray-700 p-5 rounded-lg shadow hover:shadow-lg" href="./api/models"
      ><div class="w-full text-center bg-gradient-to-br from-purple-400 to-purple-500 rounded-lg py-1.5 font-semibold mb-5 text-white text-lg leading-relaxed">Reference</div>
      <p class="text-gray-700">Technical descriptions of how 🤗 Diffusers classes and methods work.</p>
    </a>
  </div>
</div>

## Supported pipelines

| Pipeline | Paper/Repository | Tasks |
|---|---|:---:|
| [alt_diffusion](./api/pipelines/alt_diffusion) | [AltCLIP: Altering the Language Encoder in CLIP for Extended Language Capabilities](https://arxiv.org/abs/2211.06679) | Image-to-Image Text-Guided Generation |
| [audio_diffusion](./api/pipelines/audio_diffusion) | [Audio Diffusion](https://github.com/teticio/audio-diffusion.git) | Unconditional Audio Generation |
| [controlnet](./api/pipelines/stable_diffusion/controlnet) | [Adding Conditional Control to Text-to-Image Diffusion Models](https://arxiv.org/abs/2302.05543) | Image-to-Image Text-Guided Generation |
| [cycle_diffusion](./api/pipelines/cycle_diffusion) | [Unifying Diffusion Models' Latent Space, with Applications to CycleDiffusion and Guidance](https://arxiv.org/abs/2210.05559) | Image-to-Image Text-Guided Generation |
| [dance_diffusion](./api/pipelines/dance_diffusion) | [Dance Diffusion](https://github.com/williamberman/diffusers.git) | Unconditional Audio Generation |
| [ddpm](./api/pipelines/ddpm) | [Denoising Diffusion Probabilistic Models](https://arxiv.org/abs/2006.11239) | Unconditional Image Generation |
| [ddim](./api/pipelines/ddim) | [Denoising Diffusion Implicit Models](https://arxiv.org/abs/2010.02502) | Unconditional Image Generation |
| [latent_diffusion](./api/pipelines/latent_diffusion) | [High-Resolution Image Synthesis with Latent Diffusion Models](https://arxiv.org/abs/2112.10752)| Text-to-Image Generation |
| [latent_diffusion](./api/pipelines/latent_diffusion) | [High-Resolution Image Synthesis with Latent Diffusion Models](https://arxiv.org/abs/2112.10752)| Super Resolution Image-to-Image |
| [latent_diffusion_uncond](./api/pipelines/latent_diffusion_uncond) | [High-Resolution Image Synthesis with Latent Diffusion Models](https://arxiv.org/abs/2112.10752) | Unconditional Image Generation |
| [paint_by_example](./api/pipelines/paint_by_example) | [Paint by Example: Exemplar-based Image Editing with Diffusion Models](https://arxiv.org/abs/2211.13227) | Image-Guided Image Inpainting |
| [pndm](./api/pipelines/pndm) | [Pseudo Numerical Methods for Diffusion Models on Manifolds](https://arxiv.org/abs/2202.09778) | Unconditional Image Generation |
| [score_sde_ve](./api/pipelines/score_sde_ve) | [Score-Based Generative Modeling through Stochastic Differential Equations](https://openreview.net/forum?id=PxTIG12RRHS) | Unconditional Image Generation |
| [score_sde_vp](./api/pipelines/score_sde_vp) | [Score-Based Generative Modeling through Stochastic Differential Equations](https://openreview.net/forum?id=PxTIG12RRHS) | Unconditional Image Generation |
| [semantic_stable_diffusion](./api/pipelines/semantic_stable_diffusion) | [Semantic Guidance](https://arxiv.org/abs/2301.12247) | Text-Guided Generation |
| [stable_diffusion_text2img](./api/pipelines/stable_diffusion/text2img) | [Stable Diffusion](https://stability.ai/blog/stable-diffusion-public-release) | Text-to-Image Generation |
| [stable_diffusion_img2img](./api/pipelines/stable_diffusion/img2img) | [Stable Diffusion](https://stability.ai/blog/stable-diffusion-public-release) | Image-to-Image Text-Guided Generation |
| [stable_diffusion_inpaint](./api/pipelines/stable_diffusion/inpaint) | [Stable Diffusion](https://stability.ai/blog/stable-diffusion-public-release) | Text-Guided Image Inpainting |
| [stable_diffusion_panorama](./api/pipelines/stable_diffusion/panorama) | [MultiDiffusion](https://multidiffusion.github.io/) | Text-to-Panorama Generation |
| [stable_diffusion_pix2pix](./api/pipelines/stable_diffusion/pix2pix) | [InstructPix2Pix: Learning to Follow Image Editing Instructions](https://arxiv.org/abs/2211.09800)  | Text-Guided Image Editing|
| [stable_diffusion_pix2pix_zero](./api/pipelines/stable_diffusion/pix2pix_zero) | [Zero-shot Image-to-Image Translation](https://pix2pixzero.github.io/) | Text-Guided Image Editing |
| [stable_diffusion_attend_and_excite](./api/pipelines/stable_diffusion/attend_and_excite) | [Attend-and-Excite: Attention-Based Semantic Guidance for Text-to-Image Diffusion Models](https://arxiv.org/abs/2301.13826) | Text-to-Image Generation |
| [stable_diffusion_self_attention_guidance](./api/pipelines/stable_diffusion/self_attention_guidance) | [Improving Sample Quality of Diffusion Models Using Self-Attention Guidance](https://arxiv.org/abs/2210.00939) | Text-to-Image Generation |
| [stable_diffusion_image_variation](./stable_diffusion/image_variation) | [Stable Diffusion Image Variations](https://github.com/LambdaLabsML/lambda-diffusers#stable-diffusion-image-variations) | Image-to-Image Generation |
| [stable_diffusion_latent_upscale](./stable_diffusion/latent_upscale) | [Stable Diffusion Latent Upscaler](https://twitter.com/StabilityAI/status/1590531958815064065) | Text-Guided Super Resolution Image-to-Image |
| [stable_diffusion_2](./api/pipelines/stable_diffusion_2) | [Stable Diffusion 2](https://stability.ai/blog/stable-diffusion-v2-release) | Text-to-Image Generation |
| [stable_diffusion_2](./api/pipelines/stable_diffusion_2) | [Stable Diffusion 2](https://stability.ai/blog/stable-diffusion-v2-release) | Text-Guided Image Inpainting |
| [stable_diffusion_2](./api/pipelines/stable_diffusion_2) | [Depth-Conditional Stable Diffusion](https://github.com/Stability-AI/stablediffusion#depth-conditional-stable-diffusion) | Depth-to-Image Generation |
| [stable_diffusion_2](./api/pipelines/stable_diffusion_2) | [Stable Diffusion 2](https://stability.ai/blog/stable-diffusion-v2-release) | Text-Guided Super Resolution Image-to-Image |
| [stable_diffusion_safe](./api/pipelines/stable_diffusion_safe) | [Safe Stable Diffusion](https://arxiv.org/abs/2211.05105) | Text-Guided Generation |
| [stable_unclip](./stable_unclip) | Stable unCLIP | Text-to-Image Generation |
| [stable_unclip](./stable_unclip) | Stable unCLIP | Image-to-Image Text-Guided Generation |
| [stochastic_karras_ve](./api/pipelines/stochastic_karras_ve) | [Elucidating the Design Space of Diffusion-Based Generative Models](https://arxiv.org/abs/2206.00364) | Unconditional Image Generation |
| [text_to_video_sd](./api/pipelines/text_to_video) | [Modelscope's Text-to-video-synthesis Model in Open Domain](https://modelscope.cn/models/damo/text-to-video-synthesis/summary) | Text-to-Video Generation |
| [unclip](./api/pipelines/unclip) | [Hierarchical Text-Conditional Image Generation with CLIP Latents](https://arxiv.org/abs/2204.06125)(implementation by [kakaobrain](https://github.com/kakaobrain/karlo)) | Text-to-Image Generation |
| [versatile_diffusion](./api/pipelines/versatile_diffusion) | [Versatile Diffusion: Text, Images and Variations All in One Diffusion Model](https://arxiv.org/abs/2211.08332) | Text-to-Image Generation |
| [versatile_diffusion](./api/pipelines/versatile_diffusion) | [Versatile Diffusion: Text, Images and Variations All in One Diffusion Model](https://arxiv.org/abs/2211.08332) | Image Variations Generation |
| [versatile_diffusion](./api/pipelines/versatile_diffusion) | [Versatile Diffusion: Text, Images and Variations All in One Diffusion Model](https://arxiv.org/abs/2211.08332) | Dual Image and Text Guided Generation |
| [vq_diffusion](./api/pipelines/vq_diffusion) | [Vector Quantized Diffusion Model for Text-to-Image Synthesis](https://arxiv.org/abs/2111.14822) | Text-to-Image Generation |
